What is consumer power? Think about your favorite store, toy, or food. The ability to decide what you and your family buy is called consumer power. By buying certain products instead of others, you can help make a positive difference in the world.
1. At the Shop
Every time you have a say in which products you buy, you are exercising your buying power.
CHOOSE PRODUCTS WITH LESS PACKAGING
Once upon a time, the world believed that extra packaging was a sign of quality and importance.
We now know that packaging is mostly waste. Next time you look at a product, look at the package it comes in.
Does a single pen really need all of that packaging? Does your new toy really need that huge box?
Thinking about these questions can help us cut down on waste.
The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an organization that makes sure wood and paper products come from forests that are responsibly managed. It is easy to check for the FSC label on pencils and paper. By looking for this label, you are exercising your buying power. You have a choice in what you buy and where the products come from. 
2. The Source
Do you know where your food comes from? How about your favorite toys?
Your favorite snacks don’t come from the aisles of the grocery store. Your favorite toys don’t come from Target or Toys R Us. Learning about where our products really come from can help us make decisions.
VISIT A LOCAL FARM
You can visit a local farm to learn more about where our food comes from and what is healthy to eat.
A lot of trucks are needed every day to move vegetables and fruits from farms to grocery stores. This is a big problem! These trucks release carbon dioxide and other harmful gases into the air.
That is why you should purchase food items from local producers. Look for farmer’s markets or grocery stores that carry local products. 
3. Believe in your Power
You have the power to change the neighborhood and world you live in. The choices you make as a consumer can make a difference. They can change the future of our planet for the better.
Whether it’s choosing eco-friendly products at the store or writing letters to local politicians about topics that matter to you, your voice makes a difference.
