Long ago, deep in a forest, a jackal discovered a cave. He decided to make it his home. He left his cave every morning to hunt for food, and returned in the evening.
In the same forest lived an old lion. He had once been the king of the forest, but a younger, stronger lion had taken his place. The old lion wandered through the forest looking for food. But as he was too old to hunt, he often had to go hungry.
One day the lion wandered off his usual path in the forest. He tripped on a branch and tumbled down a small hill, landing near the mouth of a cave. The lion picked himself up slowly and walked to the cave’s entrance. He looked inside. There seemed to be no one there. He sniffed. Aha! His nose told him that an animal lived in this cave. Sooner or later it would return home.
The lion licked his lips. “At last I’ll get something to eat,” he thought.
“I will hide in this cave and eat the animal that lives here as soon as it enters.”  
Late in the afternoon the jackal returned to his cave. As he walked toward the entrance, he noticed something strange. Near the mouth of the cave were footprints of some big animal. He saw that the footprints went into his cave but did not come out. That meant the animal was still inside. He wondered what to do. Then he had an idea.
“Oh, cave, my dear cave,” he shouted. “Please talk to me.” There was no reply. “Why are you so quiet?” called the jackal. “You promised to greet me every day when I came home.” Still no reply. “All right! If you will not speak to me, I will go to the other cave that talks,” said the jackal. He made sounds to show that he was leaving.  
The lion sat in the cave, wondering what was happening. He heard the jackal call out to the cave, but the cave did not reply. “The cave must be keeping quiet because I am here,” thought the lion. “If I call out a greeting, the jackal will come into the cave, and I can eat him up.” The lion roared out a greeting. The sound bounced off the walls and came out through the mouth of the cave. It was loud enough to be heard by all the animals in the forest. The jackal quickly understood that a lion was hiding in his cave. Chuckling to himself, he said, “Long years through these woods I’ve walked, but I’ve never heard a cave that talked.” Then he ran far from the cave to find himself a new home. 
