Think of space! What comes to mind? No, I’m not talking about planets and aliens. I’m talking about the space we live in! 
The world is full of different spaces. There are large spaces like parks and schools! And small spaces like our bedrooms!
We can think about space in three different ways: public space, private space, and personal space. 
Public space
Public spaces are often called “Commons”. Commons are the places and things that we share. Roads, parks, and libraries are examples of Commons. Can you think of any others?
Commons are important. They are social spaces for everyone in the community to come together. We are all responsible for their care. 
Public spaces belong to everyone. But wait! Before you camp in your local park or throw a party at the library, remember that there are rules. The rules are set to keep these spaces clean and safe. 
Private space
A private space is a space that has an owner. Privates spaces are also important. We all need a place where we can go to relax and be alone.
Homes and offices can be examples of private spaces. The rules of these spaces are made by their owners. We must ask for permission before entering a private space.
Personal space
We all have personal space. This is the space that is our own. It is where we sit and stand.
Everyone feels different about their personal space. People can feel upset or angry when someone they don’t know gets too close. That is why we should respect everyone’s personal space. 
Respecting our Spaces
It is important to respect all spaces in our community and in our school. 
We can respect public spaces by “leaving no trace.” This means we don’t leave a mess. It means we put our trash in the trash bin. It also means we don’t take anything that doesn’t belong to us.
We can respect private spaces by asking for permission before we enter them.
We can respect personal spaces by finding out how much space a friend or classmate needs to feel comfortable.
Respecting public, private, and personal spaces makes us better people. It helps keep our community safe and fun!
