The last place Tomek wanted to visit was a dark cemetery. Yet here he was, zipping up his coat, getting ready to go.
“But we already went today,” Tomek said. Earlier, Tomek and his family had taken flowers and candles to his grandfather’s grave for All Saints’ Day. The cemetery had been filled with others doing the same thing. A priest had said that all over Poland families were remembering those who had died.
“We go again after dinner,” Mama said now.
“Is there a problem?” Tata asked. How could Tomek tell his father that he was afraid to go into the cemetery at night? 
“I’m coming!” sang Babcia, his grandmother.
Mama whispered to Tomek, “You know this means a lot to Babcia.” 
Babcia entered the room and smiled at Tomek. “I want you to be warm,” she said wrapping a red scarf around his neck. It smelled like her perfume. Babcia was always nice to him. Mama was right — Babcia would want him to be there.
“How about you walk with me, Tomek,” said Aunt Dorota. She took his hand, and they went outside.
All the way to the cemetery, Tomek kept his eyes down. The light from houses helped them see their way. They’d be at the dark cemetery soon enough.
“Can you remember your grandfather?” asked Aunt Dorota.
“No,” said Tomek without looking up. Aunt Dorota sighed. “He was so much fun!”
Tomek wanted to hear more. After all, he was named after his grandfather. “He was fun?”
“He did magic tricks,” said Aunt Dorota. “He would make a coin disappear and then find it in your pocket.”
Tomek smiled. He watched his feet: left, right, left, right. Aunt Dorota chatted on about his grandfather. Then their path turned. They were at the cemetery. He just knew it. 
But it did not get dark! In fact, it seemed to be getting lighter.
Slowly, Tomek raised his eyes. Candles flickered everywhere! The gravestones were covered with burning candles — candles in little jars or tall glasses, big pots of candles with several flames.
Together they filled the cemetery with brilliant light.
Tomek blinked. As if in a dream, he followed his parents. Families nodded and greeted one another in hushed voices.
Tomek looked at this grandfather’s grave, where Babcia was bowing her head in prayer. When she opened her eyes and saw Tomek, she smiled and beckoned to him. “He was very proud that you had his name,” she said.
Tomek stood next to Babcia, and she hugged him. Then his smaller hand took her larger one, and they left the cemetery together.
When they arrived at the house, Tomek turned to look back at the cemetery. It glowed under the night sky.
“Isn’t it beautiful?” said Babcia.
Tomek nodded. “I like All Saints’ Day. Especially at night.” 
