“Want to go to the pool tomorrow?” Rosa asked Stephanie during recess. The pool at the YMCA was one of their favorite places.
Rosa and Stephanie did everything together. They rode the school bus together. They sat together during lunch. They took dance lessons together and even went to the same summer camp. They were best friends. Most of the time.
Sometimes, though, when Stephanie was with other friends, she ignored Rosa or treated her like a little kid, even though they were the same age. Rosa and Stephanie had played together since they were babies, but sometimes Stephanie didn’t act like a friend.
Today was one of those times.
“Sorry. I’m already going to the pool,” Stephanie said. “Toni and Vanessa and I are going.” She smiled, but it wasn’t her nice smile. She walked away to join Toni and Vanessa, and Rosa was left standing alone. 
After school, at dance class, Stephanie talked and giggled with the other dancers as they stretched in front of the mirror. Rosa wanted to join them, but she still felt too upset.
Then she noticed Kiara, the new girl, standing with one leg up on the barre. Rosa joined her and began stretching, too.
Kiara smiled, and Rosa smiled back. Rosa tried not to check the mirror to see if Stephanie had noticed. I hope she feels left out, Rosa thought.
The next morning, when Rosa boarded the bus, Stephanie was waiting in their usual seat. Stephanie quickly moved her backpack off the seat to make room for Rosa. But Rosa walked past her and slid into the empty seat next to Kiara. How does it feel now? Rosa thought.
On the bus ride, Rosa discovered that Kiara was not the quiet girl Rosa had thought she was. She talked a lot — about her little brother, about the tree house her uncle had built, and even about swimming.
“I love swimming!” Rosa said.
“Me, too,” Kiara said. “We just joined the YMCA. My dad said he’d take my brother and me tonight.”
“It’s awesome there,” Rosa said. “Sometimes the lifeguards put giant floats in the pool to climb on and slide off. I want to have a pool party there for my birthday this year!”
“Maybe you can come with us tonight,” Kiara said. “I’ll ask my dad.”
“That would be fun. I’ll ask my mom,” said Rosa. 
When they stepped off the bus, Stephanie was waiting on the sidewalk. “Did you still want to go swimming tonight?” Stephanie asked Rosa.
 Rosa thought. “I’m already going,” she said. “Kiara and I are going together.” She smiled. Somehow she knew it wasn’t her nice smile.
 she thought.
Stephanie nodded and looked at her feet.
Rosa’s heart sank and her cheeks began to burn.
Why didn’t she feel happy? Getting even is what she’d wanted, wasn’t it?
 Rosa thought. But it was too late. She had seen Stephanie’s face. Getting even didn’t feel the way she’d expected. It didn’t feel good at all. “Um,” she said instead, “maybe we could all go together.”
Stephanie brightened. “I’d like that.”
Rosa smiled. “Kiara, meet my friend Stephanie.”
